Version 0.26.0
==============

We are happy to announce the release of tttrlib 0.26.0.

Highlights
----------

* **Bioinformatics Publication**: tttrlib is now published in *Bioinformatics* (2025). Please cite the paper if you use the software.
* **Modernized Documentation**: New documentation layout with card-based navigation and improved tutorials.
* **CI/CD Automation**: Fully automated documentation builds and deployment via GitHub Actions.
* **Improved Robustness**: Better handling of invalid TTTR files and edge cases in CLSM image construction.
* **Enhanced Python API**: Improved constructor for CLSMImage with better metadata integration.
* **Becker & Hickl SPCM Support**: New support for BH SPC-130/140/150 detectors with pixel-marker binning, automatic `.set` file parsing, dimension inference, and Frame 1 adjustment. Integrated truncated recording recovery.
* **CLSM Bug Fixes**: Fixed `get_fluorescence_decay` stack_frames bug where only the last frame was processed. Fixed `get_phasor` precision loss by using float instead of int calculation.
* **Backwards Compatibility**: Added `TTTRHeader.data` property to restore compatibility with older tttrlib versions.
* **Large File Support**: Fixed crashes when reading PTU files larger than 2GB by implementing portable 64-bit file I/O macros for Windows and Unix systems.
* **MultiHarp 150 / PicoHarp 330 Support**: New support for MultiMarp 150 and PicoHarp 330 devices with T2 and T3 modes, using the new `PQ_RECORD_TYPE_GENERIC_T2` and `PQ_RECORD_TYPE_GENERIC_T3` identifiers.

Contributors
------------
The following people contributed to this release:
* Thomas-Otavio Peulen
* Chen Qian (@cqian89)
